BL Selected Classics: Taketori Monogatari Ise Monogatari (The Tale of the Bamboo Cutter and the Tale of the Ise) [1] published by Sayūsha in this October was the project to translate Japanese classic literature into modern Japanese and also to transform into BL [2]. I found fascinating about the fact that those classics did not feel outdated. They capture the human nature that is still relevant today. Rather than originals, translated versions and references published in the Showa period (1926 – 1989) felt old fashioned. For example, the main character princess Kaguya is taken back to the Capital of the Moon at the ending, and references written 30 years ago interpret this as a tragedy with no doubt. In my work, I left a room to question if it is a tragedy. Maybe princess Kaguya might find joy in the Capital of the Moon even it is beyond the imagination of people on the earth. We tend to have a fear or anxiety about the new environment, but we all know an unknown place may bring pleasant surprises today. 

In my BL versions of The Tale of the Bomboo Cutter, princess Kaguya turns into Prince Kaguya-hiko. During the project, Kguya-hiko and Ariwara no Narihira, the idealised male character from the Tale of the Ise started talking in modern Japanese naturally for me. This made me happy and I had a pleasant time translating the stories. I was instinctively describing Ariwara no Narihira based on the original text and the character has become a frivolous player with a sensitive mind. Apparently the characters from the classic stories are like them when they go through the pipe of Yukufune Ema.

The modern translation of the classics could be divided into two types: one is true to the original and the other is spiced up as an entertainment reflecting translator’s style and taste. The latter shows the translator’s intention to reinvent the classics clearly. The former, the textbook type is also constantly renewed because it has to react to the endless language change. It has its own value and I think it is interesting.

If you try to make or do exactly the same thing, you cannot manage it. This also can be applied to clones. In November, I will publish the young adult fiction, Nanyukutachi no Seiza (The Constellation of Nanyukus)[3] which is a story about clone boys who are made to carry out jobs that humans no longer do. Even they look like each other, they all have unique minds. Boys live peacefully since they naturally understand they all different. They know they do not need to appeal their uniqueness.

Today, clone humans are fictional yet. However, I think as long as more than two substances or matters cannot exist in the same place and time in the real world, it is impossible to perfectly repeat the same thing. In this sense, even mass produced machine reproductions are different each other. 

Since the universe is prudent, it does not need the same experience twice. Even the most perfect copy is given its unique interpretation and provided different destiny. Without a special effort, we are fairly special. All we have to do is just relax and exist. Two books I worked on reminded me of this fact.

[1]Ema Yukifune, BL Koten Selection1 Taketorimonogatari Isemonogatari (Tokyo: Sayūsha, 2018).
[2]BL or Bōis Labu (Boys Love) is the literature and manga genre developed in Japan, which focuses on a homosexual relationship among men or boys. The most of BL authors, editors and readers are female so generally the category is distinguished from the contents for gay men. Yet the concept of BL is not established so it is impossible to make a clear distinction between BL and other genres in general. Including both professionals and armatures, BL market is quite big in Japan today.
[3]Ema Yukifune, Nanyutachi no Seiza (Tokyo: Alicekan, 2018).
