Making an Original out of a Copy | 複製からオリジナルを is inspired by Walter Benjamin’s aura and the analysis of Boris Groys. According to Groys, the difference between an original and a copy is contextual rather than material. We consider this discussion helps us to understand Haiku. Haiku is the world shortest poetry and haiku poets exmploy a seasonal word called ‘kigo’. The collection of kigo is documented in a book called Saijiki and most of words are succeeded from the Edo period. The poets explore the originality using kigo so they do not invent a new kigo for the sake of uniqueness. In Benjamin’s sense, kigo is reproduction without the aura and it does not have a unique connection to time and place. Considering making haiku poetry as a gesture of re/deterritorialising the context of kigo, this article explores the originality of haiku. 

Benjamin’s Aura and Groys’ analysis 
In The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction, Benjamin says an original artwork is an ‘unique existence at the place where it happens to be’ using the term ‘aura’. Benjamin predicts technological advance allows reproductions to exist multiple places simultaneously and the traditional value of authenticity that requires viewers to pay a visit to an original artwork will be obsolete. According to Boris Groys, the aura is merely material but contextual matter. Even a perfect copy visually identical to an original is different from an original in terms of uniqueness in the context of ‘here’ and ‘now’. While an original is tied to a specific place and time, copies reach to larger audience. It is impossible to valorize a copy in relation to art history in a traditional way, since it does not have a particular territory in time and space. In other words, making a copy is to ‘detteritorialise’ the original and unique context of artwork. If the authenticity is a contextual matter, Groys suggests, it is possible to make an original out of a copy by ‘retteritotialising’ a copy.  

Haiku and Kigo as a Copy 
Haiku is Japanese poetry consists of 17 morae and it stems from Haikai which became popular in the Edo period (1603-1867). Haikai is the collaborative linked verses and Haiku was originally the first verse of Haikai. Later in the Meiji period (1686-1912), Haiku became an established form of poetry. Haiku follows the rule that you have to contain at least one kigo (季語) or a seasonal word from Haiku Saijiki (俳句歳時記). Haiku Saijiki consists of 5 volumes: new year, spring, summer, autumn and winter, and each volume has 7 sections such as the season, the sky, the earth, humanity, observances, animals and plants. The origin is Keiso Saijiki imported from China in the Asuka period (592-710), which is a book documenting the observances of the Chinese court. The present Haiku saijiki follows a solar calendar that was shipped in Japan in the 19th century but movements to organise kigo vocabulary had emerged in the Edo period. In the Edo period, the vocabulary of kigo expanded since Haikai became so popular that it spreads to the ordinary people. Words relating to ordinary life began considered as kigo so kigo plays a role to connect poets and readers as common knowledge.

In the sense of Benjamin’s aura, kigo itself is reproduction without the aura. Across the time, kigo has described the sense of season and it is not a unique existence in time and space. Haiku poets often gather up to present and discuss their works that is called a Kukai (句会) and in a Kukai, it is not rare that poets select the same kigo. Also in the geographical sense, kigo is not confined to a certain place. You could use the kigo, ‘snow’, for example, anywhere in the winter time, even in a place does not have the snow. Kigo does not have its specific territory in the history of haiku. The originality of haiku is brought by the reterritorialisation of kigo. A haiku poet deterritorialises one kigo and gives a new place in the historical context of haiku. Like contemporary artists after the death of new visual expressions, Haiku poets make an original out of a copy by questioning the tradition. While the collections of powerful galleries define the tradition in the art world, Haiku saijiki functions as an archive of Haiku history. In Haiku Saijiki, not only the origin and meanings of each kigo, but also example works of historical haiku poets are shown. The contents are varied in an edition but contemporary haiku poets can learn how each kigo have been used. When a haiku poet updates the interpretation of a kigo so that it is uniquely relevant to ‘here’ and ‘now’, the poet successfully makes a new work.

Karigane (Wild Geese)
How does a haiku poet retrritorialise a kigo? Using a kigo ‘karigane’ as an example, we investigate the transition of the interpretation of a kigo. Karigane is wild geese come to Japan in October and stay till March and it is categorised as an animal of autumn. Karigane is a classic motif which already appears in the Manyoshu, the oldest existing collection of Japanese poetry from AD 700s. In Kojiki (712), the oldest existing chronicle of Japan, karigane is the symbol of the good omen. People believed karigane is the bird from the land of eternal life that carries the soul. The bird was also a metaphor of sadness in the 900s, which is based on a Chinese legend about the soldier, Su Wu who put a letter to his family on a leg of a wild goose from the prison. Those classic connotations are seen in the work of Matsuo Basho in the Edo period.

病雁の夜さむに落ちて旅寝かな
A sick wild goose returns
in the cold night
I am sick and sleeping away from home

Matsuo Basho (1644-1694) was a pioneer in Haikai. He was born in Iga, Mie prefecture, and he became a haikaishi or a professional haikai poet when he was 30. In the Edo period, shi-no-ko-sho or the four classes of warriors, farmers, craftsmen and tradesmen were strictly provided and haikai poets are an outsider. They manage the life by teaching people under the patronage of warriors but Basho gradually noticed this system keeps him from pursuing his creativity. Inspired by the poet Saigyo (1118-1190), Basho left Edo and travelled all over Japan at the age of 37. His travel journal, Oku no hosomichi (The Narrow Road to the Interior) written in the form of prose and verse is one of the important texts of Japanese literature.

The work of a sick wild goose is one of his latest works. As previsouly mentioned, Karigane is the bird across the sea to stay in Japan and it is considered as a supernatural existence in the legends. A sick goose is a symbol of Basho himself who are old and sick, yet passionate about travelling and making haiku. Also, Karigane reflects autumn suggesting the subtle sense of death, which corresponds to the sadness stems from Chinese legend. Haikai tends to be casual and playful in opposition to the established poet, renka at the time. Challenging this tendency, Basho created lyrical and serious Haikai. He laid a foundation of Haiku. 

After 100 years, Kobayashi Issa created the haiku with karigane in 1807.

雁鳴くや窓に蓋する片山家
Wild gooses are so loud
I shut the windows of this small house
in the middle of nowhere
Kobayashi Issa was born a farmer’s son in 1762 in Shinano, Nagano prefecture. He was sent to Edo to serve a rich family at the age 15 and after 5 years he started leaning Hakai. Unfortunately, he could not manage his life as a professional poet, so he roamed over Japan until he turned 50. While his travel, he kept making haikai with locals and poets he met. At that time, a pastoral style became popular among Haikai poets in Edo who got bored with sophisticated and lyrical manner. Issa is famous for his colloquial style but his work is different from ones of his contemporaries. He saw farmers suffered from poverty in rural areas first hand and also he experienced the nomadic life which was quite uncommon at that time. His haiku reflects reality rather than romanticised life in a rural area. 

The haikai with karigane clearly presents Issa’s realistic attitude. Wild geese coming back to the shore from the sky must have been very noisy. There is not lyrical and mystical karigane that is expressed in Basho’s work. Here, there are a group of migratory birds and Issa who leads a simple and ordinary life. The contrast between vigorous wild geese and unhappy Issa can be seen, but also this realistic and almost cynical work is very strong. It challenged the elegance and lyricism of Basho who had many patrons and pupils who supported his travels. Basho’s symbolic and poetic karigane is redefined by Issa from a realistic point of view.

In Meiji period, the classes structure was abolished and haikaishi became obsolete. Haiku poets started building a circle called Kessha and published magazines where they present new works. Haiku became an established literary genre. In the early Showa period when World War ll broke out, there is karigane expressed in the wartime.

雁や残るもの皆美しき
Oh Karigane
All that I will leave behind is beautiful
The haiku is created by Ishida Hakyo in 1943. Hakyo left his note on this haiku. ‘Showa 18, the 23rd of September. I got a draft card. Karigane looked the same as last night and the sunset was also beautiful as yesterday evening. All of sudden, everything looked stunning. I had to leave all of them behind.’

Hakyo was born in 1913 in Ehime prefecture. He joined the kessha called Ashibi when he was 17. Talented Hakyo published the magazine Tsuru in 1937 and he started educating young poets. His career as a haiku poet seemed to be promised and then he was drafted into the army. This work draws the line between home and the battleground or ‘here’ and ‘there’. Karigane is a symbol of the home where is eternally peaceful in opposition to the battleground as the site of violence and death. The phrase ‘All that I leave behind’ could also sound ‘All that remains’ in Japanese, which implies he predicted his death. Hakyo dismisses Issa’s karigane as uninvited guests in the ordinary life. Here Karigane is part of sweet home where Hakyo sensed he would never be back. Considering the work is full of the sense of grief, one could see the traditional interpretation of Karigane revived. Based on his note and the historical background, however, karigane is less symbolic since this haiku could be a snapshot of home rather than a creative work maneuvered. Hakyo got sent back to home from China due to illness in 1944 and he led the postwar Haiku with his contemporaries.

At last, there is a contemporary haiku employing karigane about home. 

この浜の奥に原発雁渡る
At the far back of this shore
The nuclear power plant there
Karigane fly across the sky
On 11 March 2011, the earthquake and tsunami triggered the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant disaster including the nuclear meltdowns and the release of radioactive material. The evacuation zone was expanded to the area 20 km from the plant in April 2011 and approximately 150,000 people were evacuated. Komakine Junko grew up and raised her son in Futabacho where is one of the closest towns to the Fukushima Daiichi. In 2013, she visited Fukushima and created this haiku. It was said the seawater around the plant was also contaminated. Unlike other three haiku poets previously mentioned, Komakine presents karigane have no connection with the human system. They fly towards the evacuation zone, which almost   our anxiety about the invisible radioactive leaking. It recalls the ancient connotation of karigane as a carrier of soul or a supernatural existence. At the same time, the scenery of karigane flying across the sea evokes the memories of home for Komakine, and in this sense, Komakine’s karigane follows the historical interpretation too. Based on the traditional interpretation, Komakine describes the complex feelings about her hometown is contaminated by the invisible radioactive through one kigo, karigane. Futabacho is still a restricted area today. Karigane here is given unique connection with ‘here’ and ‘now’, it claims an original territory in the context of haiku. 

In an artistic and literary world, original and reproduction are often considered as binary opposites as ‘the good authentic’ and ‘the bad fake’. However, when we look at the kigo karigane, it is clear that haiku poets have constantly reinterpreted the kigo, which allows the word stay alive. Karigane never gets old as a motif even though the number of geese decreased and our lifestyle is also changed today. It is because haiku poets deterritorialise/reterritorialise the connotation of karigane in the context of haiku. Or in other words, haiku poets create a unique connection between a kigo and time and place that they live. This system support haiku as a literary genre to be relevant to the contemporaneity.

