
I arrived in Lisbon in 2015, for six months, and discovered a city with of a great beauty. A lot of buildings in the town center were abandoned, the vegetation was taking over every empty space. Former individual gardens become wild were open to everyone, had become public area. These were the consequences of the economic crisis, but I believe it is these spaces that taught me to appreciate emptiness, ruins and loneliness. They became mine and started to resonate with my artistic practice. Anyone passing by could feel free to invest these places with its own imagination and creativity.

I was going from coffee shops to tascas, from tascas (typical portuguese restaurant) to abandoned building, from abandoned building to Miradouro (viewpoint), and from this urban wandering I created my own itinerary. My walk always has more than one stop, like a procession.

In 2017, I was back for an artistic residency that enabled me to explore further the idea of roaming, stages and contemplation stops. From April for the Holy week until June, Lisbon is full of religious processions.The procession of Nossa Senhora da Saude dedicated to the patron saint of health crossed the trajectory of my walk. Departing from the church of Nossa Senhora da Saude, ritualistic and religious, the parade walks around the historic neighbourhood and comes back to the church. I was more inspired, however, by the Procession of Candles, which happened the night before the procession of Nossa Senhora da Saude. For the Procession of Candles, people gather in the church of Nossa Senhora da Saude at night and walk to the church of São Domingos holding a candle, praying, singing and accomplishing devotional services.From this observation, I was questioning myself, not only about its trajectory but also about the importance of its stops, the importance of “passing through the Holy door”. The question of the threshold: What mystical, spiritual, subterranean or celestial world are they entering by passing the door of a church?

I have been living in Lisbon since 2018. The city quickly changed, the streets and the churches are now full of tourists and the empty spaces suddenly disappeared. The doors of abandoned houses, formerly private, are now closed with concrete, bricks or wooden panels. The stops of my walks have become simple patterns, whose drawn contour is almost deleted. Most of these buildings are now in reconstruction to become Airbnb, luxury hotels or souvenir shops. These doors hastily turned into walls while the temporary occupants such as associations fighting against property speculation and homeless people...were away, for the sole purpose of «blocking» the access. Those spaces are now in transition. These “wall doors” are the present of this city, its contemporaneity, frozen spaces, waiting…

Step by step, the soul of Lisbon, its past, its “aura” is disappearing at the surface, leaving space for the homogeneity and cleanliness of new houses, all replicas of the same model, quickly renovated, probably without any historical or geological consciousness and with the same purpose: attracting tourists, that are following the latest fashionable destination.

In reaction, and in tribute to the most beautiful city I knew, I started the “Wall doors parade” project or “A procissão das portas muradas”. The video presented for the online installation “Making an original out of a copy”, is the first step of a three stages project: A video, a performance and an installation. The core idea would be to organize a performance in form of a procession, going from one wall door to another, and dedicated to the Roman god Janus.

The Romans attributed to Janus a vital role in the creation of the world. According to Ovide, his first name was ”chaos”, at the time when, air, water, fire and earth were part of the same entity. Janus is the origin, the first cause of the world as we know it. In this world, he is the guardian, the celestial doorkeeper that opens and closes the sky, that masters the days. Because of his double face, he is able to see simultaneously the orient and the occident. His two faces seem to be a symbolic image of time : this god looked both at the past, which he had the knowledge of, and the future, which he could predict. At the same time, his two faces are reminding us his function of guardian, protector of thresholds, and they allow him to keep an eye on the inside and the outside of houses, just as the entrances and the exits of public  space?

Janus echoes to the concept of “initial passage”. With his double face, he holds the attributes of the key and the stick: the opener and the traveler. God of every threshold, every passage, of every door, initially public ones, then privates, he is the god of apertures by which the light gets into the houses, but also the divinity of departures and returns…

I finally explored the myth and character of Janus to make mine these empty spaces of Lisbon.  If crossing the threshold of abandoned houses in Lisbon is no longer physically possible, then it has to be another way.“A procissão das portas muradas (Procession of the Sealed Doors)” is a video that introduces the project of performance by tracing the trajectory of the walk in eight stages. Eight “wall doors” chosen in the historical center of Lisbon. While the trajectory is progressing, the double faces of Janus that reveal the eight stops become more visible. The stops draw a new constellation and open to other worlds.

Rua da Mouraria, 38, 1100-246 Lisboa
Escadinhas de São Cristovão, 8, 1100-001 Lisboa
Costa do Castelo, 14, 1100-006 Lisboa
Largo de Santa Cruz do Castelo, 16, 1100-129 Lisboa
Rua do Recolhimento, 47, 1100-129 Lisboa
Pátio de Dom Fradique ou Pátio Julio Bernardino de Oliveira, 4, ...
Rua de Santa Marinha, 13, 1100-005 Lisboa
Calçada de Santo André, 57, 1100-022 Lisboa

